---
title:
  "Introducing Bun UI – A Lightweight, Accessible, and Pre-styled React
  Component Library in Beta"
description:
  "Discover Bun UI, a lightweight, accessible React component library pre-styled
  with TailwindCSS, designed for simplicity and speed without hidden paywalls or
  complex setups."
date: 2025-05-05
---

As a developer, I’ve used a wide range of UI libraries over the years, each with
its own set of strengths and weaknesses. While some libraries offer vast
collections of components, they often come with complexities that slow down
development. Others lock advanced features behind paywalls, which is frustrating
when all I want is a reliable set of UI components.

That's why I decided to build Bun UI.

## Why Build Bun UI?

I’ve worked with libraries that offer a large selection of components. However,
these libraries are often overly complex, heavy, and in many cases, require
subscriptions for access to more advanced features. While I respect their
flexibility, I needed something different—something that would fit my workflow
and help me build projects faster without the overhead.

For many of my projects, I didn’t want to copy and customize every component
manually. I wanted a library that:

- Is fully pre-styled, using TailwindCSS, so I can focus on building features
  instead of tweaking design.

- Comes with accessibility baked in, leveraging Radix UI primitives for robust
  keyboard and screen reader support.

- Provides a complete set of React components—from buttons and dialogs to
  dropdown menus and tooltips—without needing to hunt down individual pieces.

- Does not require a subscription to access advanced or essential components.

- Is lightweight, simple, and tailored to the needs of solo developers or small
  teams who need to move quickly without sacrificing quality.

### A Simple, Modular Approach

Bun UI is designed to be lightweight and straightforward. The components are not
deeply chained or overly complex. If you need to customize a component beyond
what’s provided, it’s easy to copy the source and create a version that fits
your needs, without digging into complicated dependencies or deep prop drilling.

This approach is inspired by some of the best ideas in the React UI
ecosystem—particularly from libraries like shadcn/ui, but it’s built for
simplicity and speed, giving you a functional, accessible library right out of
the box.

## What Makes Bun UI Stand Out?

Bun UI isn’t trying to be everything for everyone. It’s a pre-styled, packaged
component library that solves specific problems:

- Pre-styled with TailwindCSS: Every component ships with thoughtful default
  styling, and you can easily customize it to fit your brand or design system.

- Built for Accessibility: Accessibility is a priority. We use Radix UI under
  the hood to ensure all components are keyboard accessible and screen-reader
  friendly.

- No Paywall for Advanced Features: All components are open and ready to use
  without needing to sign up or pay for “premium” features. What you see is what
  you get.

- Lightweight and Simple: Bun UI keeps things lean. It’s designed to be fast to
  implement, with minimal boilerplate and a straightforward API.

- Customizable and Flexible: If you need something beyond the provided
  components, you can easily copy the source and create your own version to suit
  your project’s needs.

## The Beta Version and What’s Coming Next

Bun UI is currently in beta, and the library is growing! The first release
covers core components like buttons, inputs, popover, drawer, dropdowns and
more. As the library evolves, I’ll continue to add more components, expanding
into complex components like data tables and graphs.

You can follow the development and check out the growing component library on
[bun-ui.com/docs](https://bun-ui.com/docs)

## Final Thoughts

Bun UI is the result of years of searching for the right balance between
simplicity, flexibility, and accessibility. It’s built to be a tool that speeds
up development without sacrificing quality, and I hope it can help others build
beautiful, functional apps just as it has helped me.

Thanks for reading, and happy coding!
